Rodriguez on December 6, 1989, at 308 McCullough,
the residence of Mr. Rodriguez, concerning his
life here in Bryan, Texas, and his tenure at Texas
A&M University. Mr. Rodriguez, in the interest of
accumulating knowledge, I'm asking you to donate
this tape to me or to the Texas A&M Oral History
Collection in the University Archives. Is that
all right with you? Yes. This is a future
historians, students, and researchers also can
listen to it And so you are free to use the
interviewee's statements. To begin, I'd like you
to relay some biographical information to me,
date of birth, your family history in Bryan, and
the like. Well, as you mentioned, my name is Pete L.
Rodriguez. I was born in Bryan, Texas in 1915. My
father, Manuel Rodriguez, was born in Zacatecas,
Mexico in 1869. He arrived in the United States in
1889, arrived here in Bryan same year. My mother's
maiden name was Clotilde Gondina. She was born in
Pearsall, Texas in 1880. Her mother was born in
Senton, Texas in 1835. That makes her a native
Texan. It sure does. Back when I was a child, I
remember my daddy's restaurant. It was a
combination of a restaurant and saloon business.
It was in downtown Bryan. The only part I can
remember of that operation is when Dad was closing
it up. I was about three and a half years old.
And it was closed because of prohibition. About
1918, 1919? Yeah, about that time. After that, Dad
went to work in Goose Creek. as an old Derek hand, I
guess. But according to Mom, he never left Bryan.
He commuted weekly. So I got to see him at least once
a week for many years after that, because Daddy did
work for about 10 years. I started school when I was
seven years old. In those days, we did not have
ghettos here in Bryan. at least not to the extent
that it affected the Hispanics. There were only a
few Hispanic families in Bryan when I was growing
up. Would you describe the Hispanic community in
Bryan as it was when you were growing up?
Basically, what was its relation to the rest of the
community? How many families were there, et
cetera? Well, we grew up with the rest of the
community, which consisted of I guess Italian
people, Polish people, Czechoslovakians, and I
guess other nationalities.
And we were accepted as equals by them. You didn't
feel any tension? None whatsoever. I don't know
why, because later on there was tension, but at
that time, back when I was growing up, there was no
tension whatsoever. None those early years,
anyway. At this time, I guess along the same lines,
how did Brian treat his Hispanic citizens? In your
mind, I guess you've already answered part of
this, but was there any legal, public, or hidden
discrimination, or even just an air of bad
feelings or anything like that? I wish I could
answer that, but I can't because I don't know what
was in their mind, but they treated me well. But I
did notice some discrimination later on in the,
I'd say, latter 30s. I think this change of
attitude took place when a large influx of
Hispanic
began moving into Bryan during the late 30s, as I
mentioned before, from nearby towns such as
Cameron, Hearn, Caldwell, Somerville,
Rockdale, and so forth. And I believe this is when
the school board decided to segregate the school.
I never did understand why. A school strictly for
Hispanic was established in North Bryan near the
San Jacinto Loop. It was known then as the Ibarra
School, named after a Mexican Baptist church
minister. Regardless of what part of Bryan an
Hispanic lived, his children had to attend that
school. The end result was that the students did
not learn much due to inadequate facilities, and
they were inadequate, and extra large classes per
teacher. Can you elaborate a little bit on how they
were inadequate? Was there just not enough? Were
they not using proper text? Were the classes just
spread out amongst the grades so much? Actually,
the rooms were crowded with students. They only
had one blackboard, and it wasn't wide enough to
cover from one end to the room to the other. And a
teacher somehow or other seemed to want squeeze
the material that we think the kids had to learn in
that small blackboard. And I remember I went to see
this because I had my son there. And I told his
teacher, I said, you need additional blackboard
so that the kids can go up there and write because
they can't do this because it's covered with your
material and things such as that. So were these
white teachers? Yeah, they were all white
teachers. Yeah, they were white teachers. But
they were kind. They appeared to be kind. I think
they were doing the best they could under the
circumstances. But I could tell that they didn't
care about being there. I think that they felt that
they were recognized as inferior teachers by the
fact of being sent over to the Yvonne School. You
didn't grow up in this system. You went to Bryan
High School. That's right. Can you contrast how
you think you were educated to this? In those
schools, there was a lot of room. It was not
crowded. You had blackboards all around the room
when the teacher would tell us We've got a problem.
I want all of you to go to the black room, the
blackboard. We'd all go to the blackboard and we'd
do whatever she wanted us to do. And not only that,
we'd have different teachers for different
subjects. While here at the Morrow School, that
one teacher taught every subject. She taught
arithmetic, spelling, and geography, and
history, and everything else. And you know
yourself that she probably was good in one area,
but not that good in the rest of them. And I know
this, you could see this, because this later was
reflected in the students when they attended high
school. They all flunked. I mean, they never
finished high school. So after like nine years of
bar schooling, it went on. That's right. And they
felt inferior. The kids did. They felt that they
were not wanted. And they did not feel equal to the
other kids there when they got to high school or
when they were in high school. They would hang
around with themselves, with the rest of the
Hispanics. And they'd play with each other. They
would not play with the Anglos. I guess they felt
that they weren't wanted. And so, as a
consequence, they just didn't do well. And they
just dropped out. What about the language, too?
That's another thing. They never learned the
English language well. They needed to mingle with
Anglo kids. So be immersed in it. That's right. And
they did not do that. They just mingled with
themselves. And so when they were with
themselves, they spoke nothing but Spanish.
Nothing wrong with that. But still, they had to
learn the English language. I see. Do you know how
long the Bar School was operating? I think the Bar
School lasted about 10 years, approximately 10
years. OK. How did the Bryan public school system
actually become desegregated, and how are you
involved in this? Well, you know, in 1939, World
War II got started, and everything was focused
towards the war. I mean, somehow or other, people
were excited, and war was the primary concern. And
the schools were not in the forefront like they are
today. They were thinking about war. Of course, I
went overseas, and a lot of the parents of these
kids went overseas. And we left things like they
were in those schools. But then when we came back,
we found out what was happening to these kids. You
and some other veterans? That's right, me and some
other veterans. Actually, I got it started.
Actually, I decided to get a group of people whose
children were going to that school, and I know they
didn't like it, and I asked them. I had a meeting
with them. I don't know if they would go before the
school board with me and complain about the
school, and they say they were more than ready to
go. And so I went and met with one of the board
members, and told him what I had in mind. He agreed
it was all right for his concern. What exactly did
you have in mind? Beg your pardon? What exactly did
you have in mind? To get rid of the school, to
desegregate the school, to permit these children
to go to another school other than Ibarra, to get
rid of Ibarra. And so then I asked him if to give me
the names of the board members, because since I
just got back from overseas, I didn't know the
names of these board members. And he did, and some
of them I knew, and some of those board members, I
knew them because I went to school with some of
their children. And so, actually, I knew Mr. Webb
Howell, whose dad did business with him at one time
or another. And so he was the president and
chairman of the board. And I went to see him at his
office. And he said, definitely, I'll call a
meeting for you. So he gave us a meeting. It was on a
Tuesday night. I think we met, if I'm not mistaken,
at the old Bryan High School. And we met there on the
third floor. And the superintendent was there.
I asked some of the members that went with me, some
of these people that are going to help me try to get
rid of the school. I asked them questions to the
president and the board members why they want to
get rid of the school. One of them would get up and
say, well, my wife is taking my son all the way to
Huntsville every morning. Drop him off in the
afternoon, go pick him up. And then two others say,
well, mine is going with another group to
Navasota. And we are doing the same thing. And then
I said, well, take me, for instance. I've got my
children, and they're consolidated. And so NM
Consolidated wasn't a problem. Big part? They
were not. No, they were not segregated.
Absolutely not. And so they were, actually, they
were surprised to hear this. I don't think they
were aware, Peter, that this was going on. These
sacrifices were being made by these parents to get
a better education for their children by taking
them out of town because they knew that they were
not getting the kind of education that other kids
were getting in the other schools here at Ibarra.
And so they were very receptive to what we had to
say. And Mr. Webb Howell thanked us for bringing
this to his attention and to their attention. And I
think they all in unison said that we were going to
get rid of that school immediately. And sure
enough, within two months, it was gone. Two
months? Within two months, it was gone. And so the
kids were sent to these other schools, to go to the
school of their choice. And accommodations were
made to accommodate them. And they were very
gladly accepted by the teachers. The teachers
seemed to be glad to have them there. And so that
ended that school. It left the mark on these kids
that attended Ibarra because they never did get
rid of this feeling of inferiority that they
developed by going there. And they never did
finish high school. I'd say that 20% of the kids
that went to Ibarra finished high school. The rest
of them did not. And that was because of that
school. And I can see this today. I can see a lot of my
friends' children, a lot of my friends will
complain about how this affects their children.
They say, my boy didn't go to college on account of
that. My boy didn't advance on account of that. And
I remember at one time I was talking to the
principal of the boys' school, who was also
principal of that school, And he knew that I had
went before the board, and he didn't like it. And I
told him, I said, look, these kids need a better
education. They want to advance you like all the
other kids. And the response he gave me was that, he
said, someone has to take the ditches. And of
course, I didn't expect that from an educator, but
that's what he said. And I think, that's right, I
remember that. He told me that on the school
ground. But you can see why, from that attitude of
this principal, why the school board didn't know
that this school's having this effect on these
kids. And so I was very appreciative of the group
that went with me, because they helped a lot. And
actually, they're ultimately responsible for
getting rid of this segregated school. Can you
compare the Ibarra school the treatment of
Hispanics and education in Bryan public school
system to that of blacks? What do you know about the
black education or community at this time? Well, I
don't know too much about black education. The
only thing I do know is that the blacks had black
teachers, whereby the Hispanics had white
teachers. And the blacks The schools were in their
ghettos
near them, and I guess it was convenient for them
because it was there, it was close, it was nearby,
but still it was a segregated school. I never heard
of a white going there to teach them or anything
like that.
I know that,
I know this to be a fact that at times when our school
started, when school started, we were issued new
books, all of us were issued new books, and the
books that were used the previous year or were old,
they put them all in boxes and they were taken over
to the Black schools. So they never did get new
books. They only got old books. They got books that
we had already used up. And they were always
separate, is that right? They were always
separate, right. They were always separate. And
they were just discriminated against. And they
were always segregated. I don't know what else to
say. I mean,
they had their own football stadium. They played
with each other. They could not, actually, their
high school football team could never play
without a football team against ours. Yet they had
a big stadium over there. And actually, sometimes
they had more people going to their games than we
had white people going to ours, because there are a
lot of blacks here. But it was, I mean, I enjoyed
going to their games. As long as you paid, you could
go to their games. But they couldn't go to our
games. Even if they paid, they couldn't go. Some of
them would mingle in and stand up by the fence and
kind of sit there. But that's the extent of their
participation in our football. But that's the way
it was in those days. What about publicly in Bryan?
They were disallowed from public facilities or
had separate public facilities? Your public
places had separate facilities. All your
doctor's offices had separate facilities. And
the hospitals had separate facilities and
separate rooms for blacks. And
you could notice that in the hospital, that all of
the activity was on the end of the whites and hardly
nothing on the end. I remember when you were in
Europe, If your daddy was born, I could see a lot of
activity there in the hospital. But on the black
side, there was only two rooms, I think. It was kind
of semi-dark and nothing going on. Every now and
then you'd see a nurse go in there and come back out.
There just wasn't any place where the blacks could
sit. They had to either wait on the outside or in the
hallway right directly in front of the room where
the patient was. But we, on the white side, had
seats and everything. So they didn't have the
conveniences that we did. And I think that was, to
me, it was unjustly. Were the hospital facilities
always open to Hispanics, too? Yeah, always.
Definitely, yeah. There was some sporadic
discrimination. I don't know. They tell me that it
came in the form of preference, in other words. And
I think that they would readily treat an Anglo
quicker than they would an Hispanic. And usually,
because we only had two hospitals in Bryan, lots of
time is overcrowded.
If an Hispanic would go sick and need a room, they'd
make sure that the Anglos were taken care of first
before the Hispanic. They never told you this, and
nobody knew it, not even the Anglos, but the
Hispanic. The Hispanic knew it because it
affected them. I know that. It happened to the
people that I know. They could see an empty room
when they were there, but then a little bit, it
wasn't empty anymore, and the Spaniard, Angler
was in there, or whatever. And he would be sent back
home and say, well, come back tomorrow, maybe we
can get you in the hospital. You know, that's the
way it was. We've already talked about public
schools and Brian and how Hispanics fit in, what
they had to do. What about A&M? What were the
opportunities for Hispanic students at A&M? And
were there really any there from the community?
Well, actually, I think that A&M always had its
doors open for, I say, Latin people. I'm going to
use that term right now, because there were a lot of
Latin people, a lot of Latin students there from
Mexico, from South America. And there was some
discrimination. there, but not much. I think it's
mostly a language barrier because those people
from Mexico, the students from Mexico could not
communicate very well. And so that's the only
thing I could see is that they just could not
communicate. But I never did see why Latin from
those foreign countries was mistreated. And I
don't recall that any Hispanics from this country
were mistreated because there were hardly any. I
mean, between you and me, I just hardly ever saw
Hispanics attended A&M. Every now and then you'd
see, excuse me, you'd see one or two or three. And it
may be, it might have been that A&M was not doing any
recruiting at that time. At that time, everybody
had to join the Corps. And a lot of people just did
not want to go into the Corps, so they'd go to other
schools. And I think that's what kept a lot of the
Hispanics out. They would rather go to other
schools, but they didn't have to join a military
regiment of some sort. And like I said, another
thing, too, I don't think that A&M had any
recruiting system for recruiting Spanish
because there was no need, I don't think, because
actually, let me change that. I think there was no
prospects available because the Spanish were not
finishing high school. Most were dropouts
because a lot of these schools were
discriminated, in other words, segregated. And
so every now and then, I guess you'd get one or two,
but that's it. Even, I understand, in Houston, in
the University of Houston, it wasn't the
University of Houston then, they called it
something else. There were hardly any Hispanics
either in these colleges. But like now, now you see
quite a few. So I think that's what kept, that's
why, it's not that A&M discriminated against
anybody, it's just that first, there were not
enough high school graduates among the Hispanic
people, among the Hispanic students. And
secondly, they didn't like the core aspect of it.
They didn't want that because in those days, you
know, the way that freshman was treated, you're
lucky to come out alive. And they could see a lot of
that, and they didn't want to undergo that. And
they figured that if they do that to the Anglos,
look what they do to the Hispanics. Let me change a
little bit and talk about civic and religious
activities of the Hispanic community in Bryan.
And what role did the church play? Are you talking
about back then when I was growing up or now? Back
then. Way back? Well, actually, I was baptized in
the Catholic church. St. Joseph, and that's where
we went to church because there weren't any
Spanish-speaking churches around.
And
are you asking what role did we play with the church
or what role did the church play with us? Give me a
little of both. Was there much interaction or did
that come later? The only thing I know is that the
only special events that we attended was when
there was a confirmation of some sort. There was,
say, a bazaar to raise benefits. We'd go and
participate. and watch what was going on and buy a
few things to help the church. And then, of course,
we'd go to church on Sunday. And we were treated
well. I mean, of course, since I think that the time
that we were going to church, only about two more
Hispanic families were going. And we were some
sort of a novelty. We attracted attention because
we were a little different. Hair was dark. Our skin
was a little darker. But other than that, the
priests were very friendly to us. They were always
real good to us. And they'd come by. Because in
those days, sometimes the horse and buggy was late
getting there to pick us up. But if we needed to ride
home, they'd take us home. I said, no, we got a ride
coming. Sure enough, a little big cluck, cluck,
cluck, there comes a buggy, and we go home. A wagon
or a Model T Ford, one or two. They were nice. Of
course, mom and papa missed out a lot because they
didn't understand too much. Because if we'd go to
St. Joseph's Church, it was preached lots of time
in what you'd call Polish language or maybe
Czechoslovakian language. Or if you go to the
Italian church, it was preached in Italian. So we
missed out. So this is why I decided to go to the
Baptist church for a while, where they spoke
English and I could understand it. And I enjoyed
it. But then later on, The so-called Catholic
Church got away from this speaking their own
language because they saw that the kids were not
benefiting. The kids understood English better
than they did their own language. So then they
started hiring priests that could speak both
languages. So they were kind of bilingual. They'd
speak Polish for the old Polish people, and they'd
make a little English for the younger, and the
Italian would do the same thing. And that worked
out pretty good. Of course, to me, I think that the
services were a little long, and I think that had a
lot to do with it. But now, at the present time,
they've got priests that speak nothing but
English in most churches now. In our church, we
have a bilingual priest that speaks, right now at
the present time, that speaks English and
Spanish. And the reason he speaks Spanish, not for
the people that live and were born here, but
because we have so many citizen newly arrivals
from Mexico due to the amnesty program. They're
here, they don't understand, so he is also doing a
little preaching in Spanish. What about civic
involvement at that time? Was there much? Not how
far back you want to go, Peter. As far as you can take
me. Well, when I was a young man, I was pretty
involved in YMCA work. and March of Dimes and
let's see, quite a few other things. I can't
remember some of it, but oh yeah, go ahead. I was
also involved in Parent Teachers Association,
which you know. the first year when your daddy went
to Ibarra. I was a parent teacher there, but I
didn't like it, but I was there anyway.
Well, Peter, we had a voice in the city. We could do
anything we wanted to, but it was up to us to
participate. What happened that so many of us
spoke Spanish so much that we'd go to these
meetings and we did not want to get involved
because we felt that we couldn't communicate. We
felt that we couldn't cope with the English
language. And well, we were afraid of derision
would amount to because of the language. And some
of that exists right now, spreading time. Some of
the young boys, I mean, some of these people don't
want to talk. They hold back because they're
afraid that they can't communicate. Yet, they
speak perfect Spanish. They speak well in
Spanish. But if we want to get involved, it was
there. They encouraged us to get involved. And I
know I was involved in quite a few things, numerous
of them, way back there. Actually
I had a little combo myself that we played in high
school. And we played little high school dances. I
used to play the harmonica and the drums and
another kid used to play the clarinet and another
one played the guitar and I forget what. But we made
some noise. And actually we got so good that we went
and played for some of the civic organizations. I
guess they just wanted to do us a favor, you know,
but it was all right. But there weren't too many
things that Bryan was doing those days other than
YMCA and there was no boys club, you know, and there
were no JC's. The Chamber of Commerce was very
small and it was, now that was a place where We never
participated because it was made up only of the
so-called elite people, you know, people who ran
the community. And it was not inviting to working
people, you know, blue collar people. It was not
inviting. And so, however, now it is. Now they want
anybody, but not nowadays. Can you tell me a little
bit about Brian B's Recreational Club? You
mentioned the Boys Club earlier. I know that this
eventually more or less evolved into that. Can you
tell me why it was started and basically what it
did? Well, what it was, it was a group of boys that I
started as a Cub Pack. It was a Cub Pack group. And
there were kids. Some of those kids actually were
from broken homes. I could name them if you wanted
to, but I don't care for doing that. And then they
grew out of it. And I was a cup pack assistant cup
master. I was just beginning myself. And then
later they grew into Boy Scouts. And I've had them
for a long time in Boy Scouts. And they were good
troops. And I mean, we'd win all these prizes when
we'd compete with other troops. And then they
outgrew that. And then I didn't want these boys to
disperse because where would they go? So what I
did, I decided to organize a baseball team. And we
organized a baseball team. And there was a
suggestion to the boys to come out with a name. And
some of them came up with different kind of names.
And they chose Bees because they had a reason for
that. I remember something like the Bees, by
working together, would produce something
worthwhile. You know? And because
of that, we decided
to play different teams from different places.
And
there was a good baseball park here that at one time
housed a professional baseball team in Bryant.
But they went broke, and then another team decided
to move in. They went broke, and so the park was just
laying there. I mean, it looked like a lake. The
fence had fallen. The roof had caved in, and it was
in bad shape. So I told the kids that I would go see
the owner, Mr. Travis Bryan. see if he'd let us fix
the park so we could play in it. So I went to see him.
And he told me, he said, I'm not loaning any money on
that park. I said, well, I'm not asking for a loan.
What I want is just for you to give us an opportunity
to put that park back like it was. He said, well,
that would entail a lot of money and a lot of
sacrifice, a lot of work. You can't do that. I said,
well, I will try. He said, if you can do it, you go
right ahead. So we took it. And sure enough, we did.
We made that park, put it back like it was brand new.
And that enabled a lot of other teams to play in it.
It enabled A&M Consolidated to play there. A&M
Consolidated had to call me to schedule the game.
And also Bryan High School enabled them. It also
enabled a black baseball team to play there, a
black high school baseball team. The American
Legion. and enable also the
Bryan Air Force teams to play there. Because at
that time, we had the Air Force here. And of course,
we played there, the Bryan Bees. And we were
sponsoring two teams, the Bryan Bees, the Bryan
Aztecs, and then later on, the Bryan Merchants. We
played there, and I scheduled all
those games. Shortly after that, I became a member
of the Bryant Park Board. And Mr. Carbosier was the
chairman of the board. No, he was not. Someone else
was. Mrs. Culpepper, I think, was chairman of the
board. And I suggested to Mr. Carbosier that the
city of Bryant should buy that park. And so he said
he thought that was a good idea. And so we went to see
Mr. Bryant. We made a very good deal with it, good
deal. So then Mr. Carabasio went and made a motion
to the park board, and we buy the park. I second the
motion. And then it was sent to the city council, I
don't know, the Brian commission, the Brian
commission. And they voted to buy the park. And I
named the park Travis.
I decided to give it a name, and I just thought I'd
name it Travis. I think it's called Travis today.
But as a result of that accomplishment on behalf of
the Brian B's, we accommodated a lot of people, a
lot of kids. And they played that for years and for
years. Actually, it kept me busy at the office. I
was doing more work for that park than I was doing
for my own job. I was neglecting my own job and kind
of that, but nobody there seemed to mind it. What
about the Boys Club? And then, of course,
actually, I also, because of that, somehow they
approached me about organizing, help organize
the, you should call it a league team. And I was very
instrumental in organizing, helping with that.
And then, of course, one of my members, Brian Bees,
wanted to set it, He said, you know, we're growing
now. We're going to leave this team. We're going to
break out. What's after that? And he suggested to
me that he'd heard of Brian Boyd's club in
different places. And I didn't even know what a
Brian Boyd's club was. And he explained it to me.
And I thought it was a good idea. So I told him, I
said, do you know of anybody that you could contact
that would, yeah, I know Mr. So-and-so. So he, I
can't remember this gentleman's name, a
wonderful person because he came over and talked
to me and talked to other people. And then we
decided to get together and we met in an old lumber
yard in Bryan. And actually, we even invited WT
McDonald, who was the present judge at that time,
district judge, 85th District Court judge. And he
got up and didn't discourage us, but in essence, he
said that he didn't think people would buy
anything like that here in Bryan, that people in
Bryan would not support it because it's going to
take money. But anyway, we decided to go ahead and
start one. So at the second meeting, we got a
charter group. We named the charter members. And
Mrs. Parker, Marianne Parker, was at that time.
And we made her chairman of the charter. because we
figured we needed her influence in the community.
And we got started. Then it was up to us to go out and
recruit kids to come and join. And we went out and
recruited a bunch of kids. And they started
coming, and some people started donating
basketballs and little pool tables. And Mrs.
Parker and I, we decided to ride for a boat We went to
the campus, and we got thrown out until we got off
the campus. We made a little money off that boat. We
were able to buy more supplies, and that's how we
got started. Not only Curtis Dickey, but
Bernstein and others that played real well for
Cheryl, made a name for themselves,
they went through Boy's Club. And we have a lot of
kids that went through there that were from broken
homes, and now today are successful people in the
world. And so I think that the Boys Club was a good
thing for Brian. And I want you to know that I don't
want to take credit for all that because of
starting it, but I was one of the members that
started. A lot of Hispanic kids go through there
also? A lot of Hispanic kids were going. At that
time, we were very much involved. And we worked
hard to get it going. But the overall success of it,
as it is today, belongs to the community of Bryan
and to the United Fund who are now supporting it.
But that's how it got started. It was bleak when we
started. And it looked like every year it got
bleaker, but then we never gave up. And we had
criticism from people saying that we were
accommodating kids that were not from good
families. But actually, that's the kind of kids we
wanted. Kids that had problems, kids from broken
homes. And we realized it was a challenge, but we
had a lot of volunteers work with those kids. And
they turned out to be good kids later on. Kids that
later on paid back some of the benefits that they
derived from Boys Club by working in Boys Club
voluntarily and helping other kids. This was very
obvious. It's obvious right now. So, these kids,
Brian Bees, did well. Boys Club was an aftermath of
that. I think what I've read earlier says that at
least Half of these people, or half of these boys
involved in the Brian B's Club actually went to
finish college. Right, they did. Actually, more
than half of them went to finish college. None of
them dreamed that they would ever go to college.
This came about because of their athletic
ability, their baseball playing. I remember that
when I went with them to Allen Academy and asked the
director there, that
I would appreciate if you'd give them a trial to see
if they'd get a scholarship. And he said, well,
we've given too many scholarships already. I
said, well, why don't you just give them a trial for
maybe later on you may have scholarships. Well, he
said, he directed me to the coach, and the coach
gave him a trial. And sure enough, the coach took
about eight of them right off the bat and gave him
scholarships. And for the first time in the
history of Allen Academy, They won a state junior
college championship. Without that group, they
couldn't have done it because the coaches said it
themselves. And after that year, they had a big
banquet for all those kids. And then later on, more
Bs went down and more Bs went down. Actually, they
wanted all our boys because we had them. And I'll
tell you another thing. We had such a good team that
in that year, I don't remember what year it was, A&M
won the district. Texas A&M? Texas A&M, and they
wanted to give us a practice game, and Bill Bell
said, you can announce it like a real game because
we're going to play. I said, okay. So we announced
it, and we had a full stadium, and we beat them
pretty bad. I forget, I think at that time it was
3-2, and he felt real bad about it. The following
year, he won again the district. The Southwest
Conference? Southwest Conference, yeah. And so
we beat him again. And I think we shut him, I think 61
the second time. That's how good our team was. And
that was made up of these kids that had this dream of
playing baseball and improving themselves. And
today, a lot of them are successful boys. Some are
teaching school. Some have got good business. And
about 20 years ago, we had a reunion that gave me a
surprise party. Had about 150 kids there. But I
mean, they were there. And then about 10 years
after that, they had another reunion. So we still
stay together. We communicate, and they
communicate with me.